IBM block storage CSI Integration with IBM Cloud Satellite Storage (#83)
IBM/ibm-satellite-storage: config-templates/ibm/ibm-csi-block/1.4.0/README.md

# IBM block storage Container Storage Interface driver

IBM block storage CSI driver is based on an open-source IBM project, included as a part of IBM Storage orchestration for containers. IBM Storage orchestration for containers enables enterprises to implement a modern container-driven hybrid multicloud environment that can reduce IT costs and enhance business agility, while continuing to derive value from existing systems.

> For full release notes, compatiblity, installation, and user information, see the IBM block storage CSI driver documentation: https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T_1.4.0/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For full release notes, compatiblity, installation, and user information, see the [IBM block storage CSI driver](documentation: https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T_1.4.0/).

```

Author: done

## Prerequisites

> For full prerequisite instructions, see the following documentation, referred to in the introductory paragraph. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Review the [compatibility and requirements documentation](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T_1.4.0/csi_ug_requirements.html). 

```

Reviewer: Which steps do they need to complete on this page or others? It would be good to have a list of prereqs with links like 
```
- Review the compatibility and requirements
- [Install the required packages](link)
- etc
```

Author: done
I think the documentation is good enough, if we will right it again here we could miss or change things that will cause issues.
they need to go over all of it.

> **Installation** > **Compatibility and requirements**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: done

**Important:** Be sure to complete all prerequisite and installation steps before assigning hosts to your location. Do not create a Kubernetes cluster. This is done through Satellite.

## IBM block storage CSI driver parameters & how to retrieve them

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

Retrieve all parameters required by this template.

> ```
> 
> ibmcloud sat storage template get --name ibm-csi-block --version 1.4.0
> 
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
ibmcloud sat storage template get --name ibm-csi-block --version 1.4.0
```

```

> ```
> 
> ibmcloud sat storage template get --name ibm-csi-block --version 1.4.0
> 
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
ibmcloud sat storage template get --name ibm-csi-block --version 1.4.0
```

```

Author: what is the fix?

Author: I changed, hope it what you meant

Reviewer: removing the extra linebreaks on L19 & 21

Author: ok, done

 **IBM block storage CSI driver parameters**

> | Parameter | Required? | Description | Default value if not provided |
> | --- | --- | --- | --- |
> | `namespace` | Optional | Deployment namespace. | `default` |
> | `sc-name` | Required | Storage class name to be created | N/A |
> | `space-efficiency` | Optional | Space efficiency of volume to be created | N/A |
> | `pool` | Required | Pool ID of volume to be created in | N/A |
> | `secret-name` | Required | Existing secret name | N/A |
> | `secret-namespace` | Required | Existing secret name namespace | N/A |
> | `fstype` | Optional | File system type | `ext4` |
> | `prefix` | Optional | Prefix name of volume to be created | N/A |
> | `VolumeExpansion` | Optional | Is volume expansion allowed? | `false` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Parameter | Required? | Description | Default value if not provided |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `namespace` | Optional | The namespace where you want to create the deployment. | `default` |
| `sc-name` | Required | The name of the storage class name that is created. | N/A |
| `space-efficiency` | Optional | The space efficiency of the volume that is created. Example: | N/A |
| `pool` | Required | The ID of the worker pool where you want to create the volume. Example:  | N/A |
| `secret-name` | Required | The name of your existing Kubernetes secret. | N/A |
| `secret-namespace` | Required | The namespace that your Kubernetes secret is in. | N/A |
| `fstype` | Optional | The file system type. Specify...  | `ext4` |
| `prefix` | Optional | The prefix name of the volume that is created. Example: | N/A |
| `VolumeExpansion` | Optional | Specify `true` to allow volume expansion or `false` to disallow volume expansion. | `false` |

```

Reviewer: - Do the secret & deployment namespace need to be the same?
- What are some examples of the `space-effeciency` parameter? Or a link to review examples.
- Is pool the worker pool id?
- What are possible fstypes
- What are possible prefixes or examples

Author: done
instead of adding examples (that eventually mislead due to other options that will not be included in them) I added a link for this step in our documentation that include explanation on all fields.

## Creating the IBM block storage CSI driver storage configuration

**Example `sat storage config create` command**

```sh
ibmcloud sat storage config create --name <config-name> --template-name ibm-csi-block --template-version 1.4.0 -p "namespace=<namespace>" -p "sc-name=<sc-name>" -p "space-efficiency=<space-efficiency>" -p "pool=<pool>" -p "secret-name=<secret-name>" -p "secret-namespace=<secret-namespace>" -p "fstype=<fstype>" -p "prefix=<prefix>" -p "VolumeExpansion=<VolumeExpansion>"

```

## Creating the storage assignment

**Example `sat storage assignment create` command**

```sh
ibmcloud sat storage assignment create --name <assignment-name> --group <cluster-group-name> --config <config-name>
```

## Verifying your IBM block storage CSI driver storage configuration is assigned to your clusters

> To verify that your configuration is assigned to your cluster. Verify that the driver pods are running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following commands to verify that the driver pods are running.

```

Author: done

```bash
$ kubectl get all -n <namespace>  -l csi
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/ibm-block-csi-controller-0   6/6     Running   0          9m36s
pod/ibm-block-csi-node-jvmvh     3/3     Running   0          9m36s
pod/ibm-block-csi-node-tsppw     3/3     Running   0          9m36s

NAME                                DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR   AGE
daemonset.apps/ibm-block-csi-node   2         2         2       2            2           <none>          9m36s

NAME                                        READY   AGE
statefulset.apps/ibm-block-csi-controller   1/1     9m36s
```
## Removing your assignment

> When removing the assignment from my clusters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you remove the storage assignment from your clusters, the following resources are removed.

```

Author: done

>  - All pods, daemonset and statefulset from the deployment will be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - All pods, daemonsets and statefulsets from the deployment.

```

Author: done

>  - All objects (pvc, pv, pod) that created manually will remain on the cluster until manual deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - All objects that are created manually will remain on the cluster. For example: app pods, PVC, PVs that you created manually, must be manually removed.

```

Author: done

  
```sh
ibmcloud sat storage assignment rm --assignment <assignment-name>
```

## Removing your configuration

After the assignment has been removed it is safe to remove the configuration.

> Removing the configuration is not mandatory and it can be reused on other clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that removing the configuration is not mandatory. You can reuse your storage configuration on other clusters.

```

Author: done

```sh
ibmcloud sat storage config rm --config <config-name>
```

## Troubleshooting, support, and logs

> For full instructions, see the following documentation, referred to in the introductory paragraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Troubleshooting documentation](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T_1.4.0/csi_ug_troubleshooting.html)

```

Author: done

> **Troubleshooting**
> 
> ## References
> 
> - IBM block storage CSI driver documentation: https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## References

- [IBM block storage CSI driver documentation](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T)
```

Author: done
